So, now it's time to talk about tuples.
And what tuples are is a term for
an ordered set of data.
Now, in Python, tuples are similar to
lists which we've already talked about.
But the difference here is
that they're immutable.
And what that means is
they can't be changed.
So, in other words,
attempting to append an item to a tuple
will actually give you an error.
Now, you might have read
that definition stated that
lists are enclosed in square brackets,
and that's true, and you've seen that.
And that tuples are enclosed in
parentheses, but that is not true.
So, a comma is used to separate
the elements of a tuple, but
the parentheses are only required when
necessary to remove syntactic ambiguity.
So, I'm gonna show you
an example of what I mean.
I can put my space here.
So I'm gonna type t = "a", "b", "c",
print(t) print("a", "b",
"c") print A.
B.
C.
So, if we actually run that,
if you've seen the first example,
the answer is returned in brackets, and
that signifies that it is a double, and
also the third example Shows
that it's a tuple as well and
you can see why the second
example the one on line four.
That's actually just returned the letters
a, b, c and that's an example of having to
use parentheses to actually
avoid syntactic ambiguity.
So, in other words print will also
accept parameters followed by a comma.
So, if you do want to print out a tuple
then you'd need to actually put brackets
there as an example.
So, this also applies when you're actually
passing a tuple tool function and
as we've seen earlier enclosing an
expression in parentheses allows it to be
split over several lines without
using line continuation characters.
So, sometimes enclose our tuples
in them as well for that reason.
Now, you might prefer to always do so,
and that's fine.
Just be aware that if you come across
code that does not use parenthesis,
then you'll need to
understand what that is.
So, it's up to you.
Probably what I would
recommend is to actually
use brackets as much as possible
like this when creating a tuple.
Again, we're gonna go through a bit
more about what tuples are as we go
through this video but the choice is
up to you and you will see examples.
Like the example I started with, like this
example here, where they're not enclosed
in parentheses but they're still actually
tuples and you need to be aware of that.
Before I continue And this is a digress.
What I want to do, we haven't
actually mentioned this before, but
you can also pass a comma separated
list of items to the print function, and
it'll print them all on the same line.
And what I mean by that, we're going to
actually type some code in to show you.
Let me comment out this code for now.
So, let's start by creating some tuples.
So, first one is welcome = "Welcome to my
Nightmare" Alice Cooper, 1975.
This is a tuple.
Now, notice how it's
a different type on the end.
Oops, I've got my equals and
so forth done correctly.
And notice how you can have, actually,
different data types on
the one line with the tuple.
And we'll do something like this,
bad equals "Bad Company" "Bad Company",
1974 budgie = Nightflight
1981 and Imelda
[SOUND] 2011 and
Metallica Ride the Lightning.
1984.
So, we can actually
print Metallica like so.
We can actually run that.
And you can see when we just print it it
actually prints out the entire topple.
But, we can also do print
Metallica[0] in square brackets.
And we run that.
And surprisingly,
we get the first element.
And we can also do the same for
the other two.
We can print those separately.
So, we can go like so, 1, and
let's put that on a new line, 2.
And we run that.
We get the other elements
printing them individually.
But the point I want to make,
as I mentioned at the start of the video,
is that tupples are immutable.
So, any attempt to change them,
in this case a Metallica album to say
Master of Puppets, would give an error.
So, we can actually do
something like that.
We can try typing metallica[0],
element 0, = "Master of Puppets".
If we actually run that,
we actually get an error, tuple object
does not support item assignment.
So, you can't actually
change it in that fashion.
Now, the good thing now is tuples
actually support indexing and
slicing, which is sort of a sneaky way
of actually correcting any problems or
updating particular entries.
So, for example,
I made a typo on line nine.
With the actual name, Imelda Mae.
So, if I've got to change that
I can actually type something
like imelda equals imelda.
And we can put 0.
If we actually run that, unless you
print that out afterwards, print imelda,
just to make sure it's actually working.
So, if I actually run that,
actually what we want to do is get
rid of this error line first now.
So, that that code actually executes.
So, I'll comment that out, run that again.
We actually get more my hand,
Emilda May this time,
remembering that initially I
actually put it through incorrectly.
It's Emilda, with an E on the start.
So, I've actually got the values
correctly added to the, or
updated I should say in
the middle of the tuple.
So actually there's two
important concepts here.
Firstly, a type being immutable means that
you can't change the contents of an object
once you've created it.
But, it doesn't mean that your
variable Can't be assigned
a new object of that type, so
that's an important clarification here.
So, just to confirm the differences
between a immutable object,
an mutable one,
an mutable one being changeable,
immutable meaning you can't change
consider this current I'm going to add.
So we are going to create a new
one metallic2 equals,
and I'm creating a list this
time instead of a tuple,
lightning [NOISE] Teleca two And
print metallica2.
So, we've created a list there,
just to show you the differences.
So, course in the case of the list, that
should be metalica2 there, because I'm
updating the list here, in this
particular group of code, block of code.
Run that again.
So, in the case of lines 21 to 24,
we're working with a list.
And you can see that I was able to
directly change the element zero,
the album name, and
it worked quite Quite nicely.
But of course in the case above when
this error are here when I actually
ran that code Which it got an error and
we couldn't actually update it that way.
Because it's an immutable object.
So, again tuple immutable object.
A list is a.
Object, but you can see also that in terms
of tuples we were able to get around it
by actually assigning new
objects to that variable.
So, in this case Imelda had the initial
value set here for the tuple.
They were able to actually recreate it and
that works quite nicely.
You'll find that the term immutable
works in a lot of languages
you can't change the existing contents,
but
you can actually reference it or
to a new object of that type.
Now, the second thing that might be
obvious, but it is important for
me to actually point out.
Is that expressions on the right
hand side of an assignment
are always evaluated
before the left hand side.
So, in the imelda example above,
we're taking the first element
of the count imelda objects.
I'm talking about this line here, line 18.
So, we're taking the first element
of the current IMELDA object
which of course indicts 0 plus
the string IMELDA may correctly
typed as I-M-E-L-D-A
instead on E-M-I-L-D-A.
Followed by the third element of
the current IMELDA to produce a new tuple.
So, you can see that it's
actually This would only work if
the computer was actually evaluating this
right hand side of the expression first.
If it started evaluating
the left hand side first,
then of course this imelda object
would already have been updated.
So again,
it's looking at these values first and
assigning those before ultimately
looking at the left hand side.
To see where these objects
are going to actually be saved.
S,o in this case the new tupple was
then assigned to the value mild or
after that and
it replaces the previous object.
So, it's not the variable
that is immutable, but
it's the object that the variable
Imelda in this case points to.
So we haven't changed the contents
of the tupple object.
What we actually did here on line
18 is we created a new tupple.
And then pointed the variable and
the order to reference it.
And again, because the right
hand side is evaluated first,
the current contents of an order can
be used to create the new topple before
the assignment and
that's why line 18 actually worked.
And probably about now
you're starting to wonder,
well Why would I actually
be using a tuple?
What's the advantages of
using tuple over a list?
Because at first glance, you might look at
it and think that lists seem more useful.
And while it's actually true that you can
generally use a list in place of a tuple,
there's some important reasons why
you'd wanna favor tuples over lists.
And then we haven't actually covered
hashes or dictionaries yet in the course.
But a dictionary key requires
immutable object, and
that removes the choice if you wanna
use your object as a dictionary key.
But, you'll be finding out
more about that later.
But another key difference, is that a list
is intended, although it's not enforced,
to contain items of the same type.
Much like a real world list.
So, you wouldn't add an activity such
as sky diving to a shopping list,
for example.
The computing temp of this is homogenous.
So, in other words the list have
intended to hold homogenous items.
In other words,
meaning items of the same type.
So, tuples are actually intended
to hold heterogeneous items.
So, like our albums example where we
were storing three different things in
each tuple.
An album title, artist name, and
a year, which you can see that with
different types on lines 6 through 10.
Now, the other things to keep in mind is
the protection offered by using a tuple.
The things that should not
change can actually help prevent
bugs in your programs.
So, in other words, once an album is
released, its details do not change.
Prince and the Sensational Alex
Harvey Band, notwithstanding.
So, it actually makes sense to
store the details in a tuple.
Because of course they're fixed items,
which should never change.
So, if your code then attempts to
change one of the fields in the tuple,
the attempt is gonna fail and
you saw the error earlier in the video.
When I actually tried to do that,
on line 17 which is now commented out.
So, that it will file, and
it will actually highlight something that
your code probably shouldn't be doing.
So, it's really good
from that point of view,
to use a tuple in that way to avoid
getting into difficulties later.
So, one example of that
might be an adventure game.
So the layout of your game, the various
rooms and the links between them will be
fixed throughout the game's, Even if all
exits are not immediately available to
the players, so you would actually store
that or could store that in tuples.
The players can change though
as they gain hit points and
take damage through the game, so a tuple
wouldn't be appropriate in this case for
example to storing player details.
So, we're going to digress slightly now
and show another way to assign values to
variables that we haven't
discussed earlier.
So, what I'm gonna do is
create a new pathing file for
this example because we're gonna be
coming back to this tuples.py shortly.
So, I'm just gonna come up here,
as I've done throughout the course,
and I'm just gonna call this one demo but
you can call it whatever you'd like.
And close down the run window for now,
and I'll just delete that first line.
So, in Python it's possible to assign
values to several variables at
the same time.
And here's an example of setting
four variables to the same value.
So, we can put a = b = c = d = 12.
And if we print c, for
example, and run that.
And see, we got the answer, 12.
So in that case, all four variables
were assigned the value of 12.
But we can also assign different
values to multiple variables.
So, another example might be A,
B equals 12, 13.
We could print A, B.
You can see, in that case, line three,
a's been assigned the value 12,
b's been assigned the value 13.
So, once again, remember that the right
hand side is evaluated first.
So, just clarify that,
I can do something like this.
I can type So we've got a and b defined as
12, 13, and we've printed the values out.
We can do something like a, b = b, a.
Then we could do print(a is
.Formata.
We're gonna do the same for b.
We can run that, and we can see there
we've got the a have been assigned to 13,
and b has been assigned the value of 12.
And again, the value for that, the reason
that that's working is the right-hand
assignment is actually calculated,
or evaluated I should say first.
Now, looking at line 3,
it looks suspiciously like a tupple.
Considering what we've
learned in this session.
And that means that we can actually
pull out all the elements of a tuple in
a single assignment.
Please go back to the albums Python now.
And we'll just delete a bit of this code.
And we'll fix this tuple up here.
And delete that.
And metallica2 I'm gonna
leave as a list there.
We're gonna print out
part two if it down here.
This is the example, we can type title.
Artist, year, equals Imelda.
Print title.
Print artist.
Print year.
We actually now run this code.
Run titles.
We get the actual, press the print
of the list, which we've left in.
But notice how now that we've
extracted the valleys out of the total
into individual variables using the common
syntax that I've just shown you.
So, there is actually a term for that.
It's actually called unpacking the tupple.
And just incidentally in this case, where
you've got more than one file open, if you
are ever in doubt as to which one is gonna
run, come up here to the top right-hand
corner, and you can actually choose
which file you actually want to run.
For example, I can choose demo and
it will actually run demo.
And run the code for this file.
But, equally I could come back here and
select topples and actually run that code.
So, another alternative of course is just
to right click the relevant file and
actually run it.
So, we've just touched
on unpacking the topple.
Gonna end the video here, and
we'll actually talk more
about this in the next video.